TITLE: ACE’s Building Pathways Initiative to Conduct Events Focusing on Cross-Sector Partnerships, State Strategies for Student Success
URL: https://www.acenet.edu/News-Room/Pages/ACE-Building-Pathways-Initiative-Events.aspx
DATE: April 9, 2026
=== CONTENT ===
ACE’s Building Pathways Initiative to Conduct Events Focusing on Cross-Sector Partnerships, State Strategies for Student Success
​An April 28, in-person convening in Pennsylvania and a May 6 webinar, the next installments in ACE’s Building Pathways Initiative, are open for registration.
The half-day convening April 28 hosted by Northampton Community College will focus on “Higher Ed Partnerships for Access, Childcare, and Workforce.” It will bring together Pennsylvania’s higher education leaders alongside employers, students, and state partners to explore how innovative cross-sector partnership can simultaneously expand student access, address childcare barriers, and develop workforce solutions that meet Pennsylvania’s economic growth needs.
Heidi Tseu, ACE assistant vice president for National Engagement, will be joined by several Pennsylvania leaders as featured speakers, including David A. Ruth, president of Northampton Community College, and Kate Shaw, executive director of the Pennsylvania State Board of Higher Education.
for more information and to register
The 12 pm ET May 6 webinar, “Building Pathways: State Strategies to Promote Student Success,” will focus on state systems, the strategies and programs that advance student success despite the current climate of uncertainty around federal grants and programs. Featured speakers will include two state system leaders: Jim Purcell, Executive Director of the Alabama Commission on Higher Education; and Bradley Wrenn, Program Manager for Military and Veteran Student Success, University of North Carolina System.
for more information and to register
The Building Pathways Initiative, a project of
ACE’s National Engagement Office
, is a limited series of state convenings designed to advance student success by elevating state-led priorities and connecting them with national insights and resources. The inaugural  Building Pathways convening took place last year in Virginia and will culminate later this spring at an in-person summit. Stay tuned for more information about the summit.
Building Pathways, Michigan Convening
The most recent Building Pathways convening was generously hosted April 2 by Kalamazoo College, with funding from Imaginable Future. It featured participation by Michigan higher education leaders, employers, students, and state partners to explore how targeted support for student parents creates models that benefit all student populations, particularly students who face barriers to access and completion.
The event opened with remarks from Kalamazoo College President Jorge Gonzalez, Kalamazoo Valley Community College President L. Marshall Washington, and Michigan State Rep. Matt Longjohn (D-40). Their remarks focused on collaboration and a mutual desire to advance higher education in Michigan as a larger community.
From left to right: L. Marshall Washington, president of Kalamazoo Valley Community College; Michigan state Rep. Matt Longjohn; Sarah Szurpicki, deputy director of the Office of Higher Education at the Michigan Department of Lifelong Education, Advancement, and Potential; Kalamazoo College President Jorge Gonzalez.
"What we all know is that some kind of postsecondary education is critical for success," said Longjohn, who noted there is a need to either better fund higher education or prioritize higher ed funding during budget shortages.
ACE was pleased to partner with association representation from the Michigan Community College Association, Michigan Independent Colleges and Universities, and the Michigan College Access Network. Other Michigan institutions represented at the convening included Western Michigan University, University of Michigan, Michigan State University, Ferris State University, and North Central Michigan College.
From workforce development to research breakthroughs, higher education drives economic prosperity in every region.
2:00 p.m.–3:00 p.m. ET
When done right, credit for prior learning is transformative for today’s military learners. Join ACE to hear how service members and veterans used advising, credit evaluation, and support to reach postsecondary success.
2:00 p.m.–3:00 p.m. ET
How Credit for Prior Learning Works for Military Learners—in Their Own Words
9:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m. ET
Join Pennsylvania’s higher education leaders, employers, students, and state partners to explore strategies that connect education to employment while addressing the critical challenges facing the commonwealth.
9:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m. ET
Building Pathways in Pennsylvania: Higher Ed Partnerships for Access, Childcare, and Workforce
Federal guidance, investigations, and state-level changes are putting pressure on the systems colleges have built to help students vote. ACE General Counsel Peter McDonough explains where the legal lines are and where uncertainty is creating risk.
Student Voting Is Getting Harder. Now What?
10:00 a.m.–1:30 p.m. ET
Michigan’s higher education leaders, employers, students, and state partners will convene to explore how targeted support for student parents creates models that advance access and success for all students. Register now.
10:00 a.m.–1:30 p.m. ET
Building Pathways in Michigan: Advancing Student Success and Strengthening the Workforce
ACE, in collaboration with Pearson, has released a new brief examining how colleges and universities can better support stopped-out learners in returning to complete their degrees.
ACE, Pearson Release Brief on Reengaging Stopped-out Learners
Higher education leaders, advocates, and researchers came together at Howard University for the launch of ACE’s new Economic Impact of Higher Education in America tool.
ACE, Other Experts Gather at Howard University to Discuss Higher Ed’s Economic Impact
ACE will unveil a powerful new resource next month that will showcase how higher education drives economic growth across the United States.
ACE to Launch New Economic Impact Tool at Howard University
​Collaboration and cross-sector partnership took center stage on Capitol Hill as policymakers, advocates, and healthcare, business, and higher education leaders gathered for a briefing on strengthening state workforce partnerships.
Capitol Hill Briefing Highlights State Workforce Partnerships
​​Collaboration took center stage as leaders from higher education, Virginia government, and the business sector along with student veterans and student parents gathered at VCU for the first Building Pathways Initiative convening.
ACE Hosts Inaugural Building Pathways Convening in Virginia
9:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m. ET
ACE is proud to launch the Building Pathways Initiative to align education and the workforce through a series of state-based convenings. The first event will focus on student-parents and veterans in Virginia. Register today.
9:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m. ET
Building Pathways in Virginia: Bridging Education and Workforce for All
Higher education has found itself at the center of a growing cultural and policy debate, fueled by state-level initiatives inspired by the federal Department of Government Efficiency, established by President Trump’s Jan. 20 executive order.
New ACE Brief Outlines State-Level DOGE Initiatives
May is Mental Health Awareness Month, a vital time to recognize the importance of emotional well-being, especially among college students who continue to face rising mental health challenges.
ACE Releases Resource Guide on State Advocacy for Student Mental Health
This webinar, held in partnership with the Brookings Institution, examined how states were stepping up to support higher education amid federal uncertainty, highlighting strategies in funding, data, and state policy leadership.
Strengthening Higher Education: How States Can Lead Amidst Federal Uncertainty
As higher education continues to navigate seismic changes in federal policy, funding, and legal frameworks, states are emerging as key players in preserving and advancing the value of postsecondary education.
Webinar: How States Can Lead Amidst Federal Uncertainty
Non-provost candidates have unique skills gained through work in various fields. Join us on October 10 as panelists unpack their career pathways and share advice for aspiring non-provost presidents and chancellors.
The Changing College President: Presidents and Chancellors Who Were Not Provosts
A growing body of research shows that student-parents are significantly less likely to graduate college than their non-parenting peers.
Higher Ed Changemakers Prototype Strategies to Support Student-Parent Success
This July, ACE member Boston College welcomed an inaugural class of 110 students to Messina College, an associate degree program for low-income and first-generation students.
Boston College Associate Degree Cultivates Success for Underrepresented Students
In this episode, Katharine Meyer of Brookings and ACE’s Heidi Tseu join Jon Fansmith to delve into the complex landscape of state higher education governance.
State of the States: How Higher Ed Can Build Its Future
This is the second webinar in the Advancing Higher Education in Our States series. A panel will discuss the state of business education; state-based policy challenges to diversity, equity, and inclusion in higher education; and more.
Growing Business Leaders and Societal Problem-Solvers
Join ACE to discuss how apprenticeship sponsors contribute to economic mobility. Explore the role of apprenticeships in shaping the future of the workforce and fostering opportunities for apprentices to earn degrees or certificates.
Unlocking Apprenticeship Pathways