TITLE: Why Attend an Overnight Pre-College Program
URL: https://stories.butler.edu/why-attend-an-overnight-pre-college-program/
DATE: April 6, 2026
=== CONTENT ===
Why Attend an Overnight Pre-College Program
If college is on your radar, you’re probably comparing schools based on the quality of the majors you’re interested in, their career connections, and their internship opportunities.
While these academic elements are crucial, they’re not the whole story. You’ll also want to know if a university’s culture and campus feel like the right fit, especially if you’re planning on living there.
That’s where overnight opportunities like Butler University’s
come in. Designed for high school students, these programs let you explore majors, test out career paths, and even earn college credit—all while getting a preview of college life.
Campus tours won’t cover everything, so let’s explore three reasons why you should pick a pre-college program that lets you stay overnight.
1.   You’ll get a real feel for residence halls
Lots of schools have a “sample room” set aside to show prospective students. But staying overnight will give you a more realistic picture of what your experience could be like.
By living in a residence hall for a few days, you’ll get to see how students arrange the furniture and decorate, how much space and storage is available, and what you might do for fun in your free time.
You’ll also be able to figure out what lifestyle choices matter to you, such as::
What’s it like to share a bathroom?
What are the noise levels like on this floor? Can I see myself studying, sleeping, and hanging out with friends here?
What furniture comes with the space, and what might I need to pack or bring?
Most importantly, by choosing an overnight pre-college program, you’ll get to practice living with a roommate in a college setting. You’ll learn communication skills, grow in self-awareness of your own habits and rhythms, and maybe even
2.   You’ll get a taste of college dining
During college visits, you’ll often get to try the food on campus—but some events for prospective students provide a curated menu that isn’t in the usual rotation. If you want to see what daily meals might actually be like, staying overnight is a great way to decide if you like what the school has to offer.
If you have food allergies or other dietary restrictions, you can explore what options and accommodations are available. If time with friends around a table is important to you, you can experience social life in the dining areas for yourself. And of course, you’ll get the opportunity to make your own nutrition decisions, just as you would as an actual college student.
After all, learning how to balance meals with classes, homework, and activities is a small but important part of adjusting to college life. And don’t forget about other food opportunities such as snack stations, coffee shops, and local spots for when you’re ready to explore the neighborhood.
3.   You’ll experience college life beyond the tour
On a college tour, you’ll spend most of your time observing. But while attending a pre-college program, you’ll be an active participant in the campus experience.
You’ll attend classes, interact with professors, and spend time in spaces like labs, residence halls, dining areas, libraries, recreation centers, and outdoor spaces. These unscripted experiences can help you understand how you’d fit into the overall rhythm of campus life.
Along the way, you’ll naturally start to reflect on what matters to you:
Do you feel comfortable on campus?
Do you like the amenities?
Can you see yourself belonging here?
Exploring campus life also helps you learn more about your own habits and preferences—how you study best, how you want to spend your time, and how you balance academics with your personal life.
For many students, it doesn’t take long to get a sense of whether a school feels like the right fit. And if you’re still unsure about college in general, an extended stay can help you visualize yourself in that environment.
Ready to give a residential pre-college program a try?
High schoolers nationwide are invited to
Butler’s Pre-College Program
to get a preview of the college experience and possible career paths. Over the course of one week, you’ll explore interests in business, healthcare, or an exploratory track while developing leadership skills and participating in hands-on learning.
You’ll leave with a clearer understanding of what your future could look like—along with practical next steps and relationships that often last beyond the program. There are even opportunities to earn college credit.
So bring your curiosity, choose your adventure, and get ready for a transformative summer.
Learn more about Butler’s Pre-College Programs