TITLE: Butler University Welcomes Seven New Trustees to Its Board of Trustees
URL: https://stories.butler.edu/butler-university-welcomes-seven-new-trustees-to-its-board-of-trustees/
DATE: April 9, 2026
=== CONTENT ===
Butler University Welcomes Seven New Trustees to Its Board of Trustees
Katie Palmer Wharton '14
Seven new leaders—including five Butler alumni—will join the University’s Board of Trustees, bringing expertise in healthcare, education, business, and finance to help guide Butler’s continued progress through Boldly Butler.
As Butler University advances its strategic vision through
, seven accomplished leaders will soon join the University’s Board of Trustees, contributing perspectives from healthcare, education, global business, and finance that will help shape Butler’s next chapter.
Following a vote during the Board’s February meeting, Butler appointed Dr. Loor Alshawa ’14, Kendall Brehm ’17, Dr. Stephenie Chaudoir ’03, Lucy Houchin ’07, Dr. Patrick McGill, Sean McGould ’89, and Howard W. Sams ’93 to serve as trustees beginning June 2, 2026.
“As Butler continues to build momentum through
, the leadership of our trustees is critical to shaping what comes next,” Butler University President James Danko said. “These individuals bring remarkable experience and insight, and I’m grateful for their willingness to invest their time and talent in Butler’s future. Their guidance will help ensure we continue creating meaningful opportunities for our students and strengthening our impact in Indianapolis and beyond.”
The Butler University Board of Trustees plays a vital role in guiding the University’s long-term direction. Trustees provide strategic leadership and oversight while helping ensure Butler remains focused on its mission to educate students for lives of purpose, leadership, and service.
About the new trustees
A pulmonary and critical care physician, Dr. Loor Alshawa recently returned home to Indiana, where she now practices with both Indiana Internal Medicine Consultants and Franciscan Health. After graduating from Butler in 2014 with a degree in Biology and French, Alshawa earned her medical degree from the Indiana University School of Medicine.
She completed her residency in Internal Medicine at the University of Kentucky Albert B. Chandler Hospital and later pursued fellowship training in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine. A former member of Butler’s Young Alumni Board, Alshawa also served as the alumni speaker at the University’s 2023 State of the University.
Kendall Brehm, an educator dedicated to student development and engagement, teaches kindergarten in the Avon Community School Corporation, where she has previously taught third and fourth grade. A Butler alumna, Brehm earned a degree in Elementary Education & Mild Intervention from Butler in 2017.
She remains actively connected to Butler through alumni leadership and is the incoming President of the Butler Alumni Board. Brehm is also a former member of the Young Alumni Board and a member of the Bloomington-based Alpha Chapter of Tri Kappa, a philanthropic organization that supports statewide projects contributing to charity, culture, and education.
Dr. Stephenie Chaudoir ’03
Dr. Stephenie Chaudoir serves as Professor of Psychology at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts. Her research and teaching focus on the drivers of stress-related health inequities and evidence-based practices that promote well-being.
Before joining Holy Cross in 2012, Chaudoir served as an Assistant Professor at Bradley University and as an Associate Research Scientist at the Center for Health, Intervention, and Prevention at the University of Connecticut. She earned a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from Butler University and later completed both an M.A. and Ph.D. in Social Psychology from the University of Connecticut.
At Holy Cross, Chaudoir has served as Speaker of the Faculty and has chaired numerous faculty committees supporting governance and academic innovation.
Lucy Houchin serves as Executive Vice President of Industrial Dielectrics Holdings, the parent company of IDI Composites International and Montana Advanced Composites. She joined the company in 2016 and most recently served as General Manager of Montana Advanced Composites.
During her tenure, Houchin has also held leadership roles as Managing Director of IDI Composites International – U.K. and Director of Corporate Marketing, helping guide the company’s global operations and growth.
Prior to joining IDI, she worked as a management consultant supporting industry associations and government entities on public policy and strategic planning initiatives.
Houchin earned a B.A. in English Literature from Butler University and an MBA from Purdue University. She serves on the Board of Directors for both the American Composites Manufacturers Association and Women in the Composites Industry.
Dr. Patrick McGill serves as Network President and Chief Executive Officer of Community Health Network, a role he assumed in January 2026. A board-certified Family Medicine physician with more than 20 years of clinical and leadership experience, McGill has helped lead major initiatives that have strengthened Community Health Network’s use of technology, analytics, and data-driven care.
Prior to becoming CEO, McGill served as Executive Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer, where he led strategic initiatives that generated more than $50 million in cost savings and revenue enhancements while advancing value-based care models across the health system. Earlier in his career at Community Health, he served in roles including Chief Analytics Officer and Senior Vice President of Clinical Strategies.
McGill earned a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry from the University of Georgia, an M.D. from the Georgia School of Medicine, an MBA with a concentration in Data Analytics from the University of Southern Indiana, and a Doctorate in Healthcare Administration from the University of Central Michigan. He currently chairs the Indiana Health Information Exchange Board of Directors and serves on several healthcare and community boards.
Sean McGould is Founder, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Investment Officer of Lighthouse Group, an alternative investment management company. He also serves as Chairman of the Lighthouse Executive Committee and the Lighthouse Investment Committee.
Prior to founding Lighthouse Group, McGould served as Director of the Outside Trader Investment Program for the Bermuda-based Trout Trading Management Company and as Chief Investment Officer of Asset Management Advisors. He began his career working for PricewaterhouseCoopers in auditing and corporate finance.
McGould earned a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Butler University in 1989. While at Butler, he played on the baseball team for four years and was the co- captain his senior season.  He was a member of the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity and served as Vice President of his senior class. He currently serves on the Lacy School of Business Dean’s Advisory Board.
With more than three decades of leadership experience in healthcare and life sciences, Sams currently is the CEO of Applied Biotech and also serves as an advisor & founder of several healthcare start-ups.
Prior to Applied Biotech, Sams cofounded Health Outlook a venture backed company focused on health prediction using proteins and AI. Sams served as the Global Head of Digital and Computational Pathology at Siemens Healthineers based in Germany and spent more than a decade at Roche in multiple roles, including serving as Vice President of Centralized and Point-of-Care Global Marketing in Switzerland.
Sams earned a Bachelor of Science in Finance from Butler University in 1993 and later completed an MBA from the University of Notre Dame. While at Butler, Sams was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity, the President’s Student Advisory Board, the Student Judicial Board, served as Vice President of his junior class, and was the Treasurer of the Student Government Association (SGA) his senior year. He currently serves on the Lacy School of Business Dean’s Advisory Board.