TITLE: Snyder Hall flood displaces 450, UI Housing finds space
URL: https://dailyillini.com/news-stories/university-news/2026/04/08/snyder-hall-flood-ui-housing/
DATE: April 8, 2026
=== CONTENT ===
Snyder Hall flood displaces 450, UI Housing finds space
Sophia Vasilakopoulos
Work trucks sit outside Snyder Hall on March 18, shortly after a major flood closed the residence hall for the rest of the semester.
Last updated on April 9, 2026 at 05:24 p.m.
During spring break, a water main break in Snyder Hall’s basement caused a fast-moving
to close the residence hall for the rest of the semester. More than
, many of them freshmen, relocated to alternative housing placements upon their return to campus.
Alma Sealine, executive director of University Housing, told The Daily Illini about the timeline of the flooding.
“(Water) ran so quickly that it flooded the mechanical area within 6 inches of the ceiling, and it took out our systems,” Sealine said. “Elevator, electricity, water heater, water pump, data tower and card access system … all of those systems have to now be replaced because they have been damaged beyond repair.”
After realizing it would not be able to open the building for the rest of the semester, University Housing notified Snyder Hall residents of the situation in an
Get The Daily Illini in your inbox!
Catch the latest on University of Illinois news, sports, and more. Delivered every
Stay up to date on all things Illini sports. Delivered every Monday.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
Thank you for subscribing!
, the University asked for volunteers to help residents move to their new room assignments. Sealine estimated that at least 150 volunteers came to help over the course of the three moving days.
“We did have a large number of individuals who just showed up and said, ‘We’re in the area. We heard about it — put us to work,’” Sealine said.
Sealine and her team had to find alternative housing arrangements for 450 students in a
housing system. She said vacancies in dorms left by students who transferred, graduated or studied abroad after the fall semester provided around half of the necessary room placements.
To provide the other half, University Housing
temporary housing, converting lounge spaces into rooms that hold up to six people. The University had previously done this in August, when the housing inventory was overfilled.
Weeks after their move, students are settling into their new arrangements.
Charlie Sramek, freshman in LAS, was a previous Snyder Hall resident forced to relocate to
Illinois Street Residence Halls
Like some students, Sramek said the transition has been difficult, particularly due to the physical space.
“Our dorm is squished,” Sramek said. “All the lounge furniture is still in there, and they won’t let us move it. So we are just kind of cramped at all times.”
Beyond the cramped conditions, Sramek said the relocation has made it challenging to maintain his usual schedule. Adjusting to a new living environment, commuting from a different location and reestablishing daily routines have all added stress during an already busy point in the semester.
Sramek also said communication about the relocation process added to the uncertainty.
“(University Housing) was sending the emails out on a rolling basis,” Sramek said. “That was just really crazy to me because you didn’t know what was going to happen. People had already gotten their emails, and you were just waiting. So I was really overwhelmed and kind of angry at first.”
Hannah Alber, sophomore in LAS, moved from Snyder to a private room in
adjacent to her roommate, but initially didn’t know what to expect returning to Snyder after the flood.
“It was pretty crazy, especially because we didn’t really know … they didn’t give us any information,” Alber said. “We didn’t know if any of the stuff in our room was destroyed … if there was damage in any of our rooms. So we didn’t know what to expect when we came in.”
Alber said the volunteers made the move-out process easier for her, as she didn’t carry a single box out of Snyder.
While Alber is grateful for her housing placement in the end, she said she knows the experience hasn’t been the same for everyone.
“If you weren’t a sophomore, junior or senior, you got moved to really bad housing,” Alber said. “I’m very lucky, and (my roommate and I are) not that upset about where we got moved. The only thing we lost was the stuff in our refrigerator, which we never got reimbursed for.”
Sealine said University Housing plans to reopen Snyder Hall in August before students move in.
More in University News
The Flutie effect: Will Illini’s March Madness success impact application numbers?
UI System Board of Trustees establishes presidential search committee
Thousands in CU rally against Trump administration at ‘No Kings 3’ protest
About the Contributors
, Senior Arts & Entertainment Editor
Hi! My name is Bryana, and I am a junior double-majoring in clinical/community psychology and Spanish with a minor in adult development. I joined The Daily Illini in Fall 2024 as a reporter and worked my way up to Senior Arts & Entertainment Writer in my second semester. When I am not writing for The DI, I enjoy binge-watching a good show, listening to a podcast or exploring new spots around Champaign-Urbana! I love learning more about the C-U community and sharing unique stories, so for any inquiries, contact me at my email below!
, Senior News Reporter
Hi! My name is Avery and I’m a sophomore majoring in psychology with a minor in French. I joined The Daily Illini as a N
ews reporter in the fall of 2024, and began working as a Senior News Reporter in April 2025. I care deeply about producing vital coverage and elevating important voices in the Champaign-Urbana community. In my free time, I can be found scouring Green Street for good food or the Main Library stacks for a new book. Please feel free to shoot me an email using the button below!