TITLE: U.S. Secretary of Education Linda McMahon Visits Nebraska on Returning Education to the States Tour
URL: https://www.ed.gov/about/news/press-release/us-secretary-of-education-linda-mcmahon-visits-nebraska-returning-education-states-tour
DATE: April 9, 2026
=== CONTENT ===
– Today, U.S. Secretary of Education Linda McMahon visited Nebraska on her
Returning Education to the States Tour
. Secretary McMahon joined Nebraska Governor Jim Pillen for a tour of Hamlow Elementary School and Waverly Intermediate School in Waverly, Nebraska for a literacy roundtable discussion with local leaders.
Later, Secretary McMahon and Governor Pillen toured the University of Nebraska-Lincoln to learn how the university is expanding career pathways and supporting student athletes. The pair concluded the trip at Southeast Community College to celebrate
National Community College Month,
seeing firsthand how Nebraska is preparing students for success in the workforce.
“It was an honor to join Governor Jim Pillen and education leaders in Nebraska to learn how they are bolstering literacy outcomes and creating expanded workforce development pathways across the state,”
said U.S. Secretary of Education Linda McMahon.
“Nebraska continues to be a beacon of educational excellence throughout the Midwest, ensuring that all students – from K-12 through postsecondary education – are prepared for success.”
“From promoting early literacy in our public schools to supporting the University’s student athletes to welding at one of Nebraska’s great community colleges, it was an honor to host Secretary McMahon in our state today,”
said Nebraska Governor Jim Pillen.
“She is a champion for America’s kids and families. I am fully supportive of the Trump Administration’s efforts to return education to the states. I believe this is a pro-kid, pro-parent, pro-teacher, pro-school position. By sending education back to the local level, we let those nearest to the student have the biggest influence.”
“We are honored to welcome Secretary McMahon to Nebraska. Her visit highlights the important role higher education plays in strengthening our workforce, expanding opportunity and supporting thriving communities,"
said President of the University of Nebraska System Jeffrey P. Gold, M.D.
"At the University of Nebraska, we are proud to deliver a world-class, accessible education in vibrant university settings that prepare students to lead, serve and succeed here in our state and beyond.”
On her Returning Education to the States Tour, Secretary McMahon is traveling to all 50 states to hear directly from teachers, parents, and community leaders about what is working in their communities for their students and compile a toolkit of best practices to distribute to states.
Learn more about Secretary McMahon’s Returning Education to the States Tour
Returning Education to the States Tour