TITLE: Us Secretary Of Education Linda Mcmahon Visits South Dakota Returning Education States And History Rocks Nationwide Tours
URL: https://www.ed.gov/about/news/press-release/us-secretary-of-education-linda-mcmahon-visits-south-dakota-returning-education-states-and-history-rocks-nationwide-tours
DATE: April 8, 2026
=== CONTENT ===
-- Today, U.S. Secretary of Education Linda McMahon visited Colman-Egan High School and the McCrossan Boy’s Ranch in support of her
Returning Education to the States Tour
and the Flandreau Indian School in support of the U.S. Department of Education’s
Trail to Independence Tour
On her Returning Education to the States Tour, Secretary McMahon is visiting all fifty states to hear from students, teachers, and leaders about best educational practices in their own communities. The
Tour is a nationwide effort to highlight innovative approaches to teaching U.S. history ahead of our nation’s 250th birthday.
Secretary McMahon began the visit at the Coleman-Egan High School, touring classrooms focused on agricultural-education and workforce development. She then joined South Dakota Governor Larry Rhoden for a tour of McCrossan Boy’s Ranch, a private non-profit organization which provides one-on-one counseling and specialized education services to boys.
At the Flandreau Indian School, more than one hundred students in ninth through twelfth grades attended the
participating in interactive games designed to deepen their understanding of American history, civics, and the important role South Dakota has played in our nation’s history. The event opened with remarks from Superintendent Everall Fox and Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education Kirsten Baesler, followed by Secretary McMahon.
"It was incredible to see firsthand how South Dakota schools are equipping the next generation with the skills needed to thrive in tomorrow’s workforce,”
said U.S. Secretary of Education Linda McMahon.
“By fostering in-demand skills and a deep appreciation for our nation’s robust history, the Mount Rushmore State is preparing students for success.”
“South Dakota has a long history of local control in our education and broad support for our technical education system,”
said Governor Larry Rhoden.
“Secretary McMahon’s leadership has provided even more opportunities for our students in the classroom and in career and technical education to help our kids and grandkids succeed.”
On her Returning Education to the States Tour, Secretary McMahon is traveling to all 50 states to hear directly from teachers, parents, and community leaders about what is working in their communities for their students and compile a toolkit of best practices to distribute to states.
Learn more about Secretary McMahon’s Returning Education to the States Tour
The History Rocks! initiative is a key component of the U.S. Department of Education’s celebrations for America's 250th birthday, in partnership with Freedom 250 and coordinated with the America 250 Civics Education Coalition. Secretary McMahon, Administration officials, and education leaders will visit schools in all 50 states to showcase examples of high-quality history and civics instruction that bring American principles to life.
Learn more about the Department’s Semiquincentennial initiatives
Freedom 250 leads the presidential programming for the nation’s 250th anniversary celebration. Its mission is to unite Americans around one shared purpose—celebrating the Triumph of the American Spirit by honoring our history, cherishing our freedoms, and building the golden age of opportunity for the next 250 years.
Learn more about Freedom 250
The America 250 Civics Education Coalition is a national partnership with the America First Policy Institute, Turning Point USA, Hillsdale College, and more than 50 national and state organizations. This coalition is dedicated to advancing civic education and expanding opportunities for students to learn about the ideas, individuals, and events that define the American story.
Returning Education to the States Tour